---
layout:	post
title: Bike Tour Day 0 - Home
tags: "bike touring"
---

Today I started my bike tour just before noon in York, ME. I started at the Nubble Lighthouse, because it's always been a bit of a landmark for me, as it was always a favorite place for my parents to bring me for as long as I can remember. Besides, it seems appropriate that a journey like this should start at the ocean, and it also means that I can end my first day at home, allowing me a good opportunity to make adjustments as necessary at the end of the day.

I loaded my bike and bags up in Rachael's car, and we drove to the coast. Rachael was disappointed that we'd arrived at high tide, or else she might have taken some time to enjoy the beach before turning home. In any case, I got my bike out of the car and loaded up with bags, and set off. Rachael got a couple photos as I was leaving. She caught up with me maybe a mile down the road, and I waved at her as she went by. By coincidence I'd just happened to look over my shoulder to check clearance with passing cars as she was approaching, so I had a good opportunity to recognize her on an otherwise busy road.

Leaving the lighthouse, I followed Google Maps home, mostly. I Missed one turn and ended up going through Route 1 in Kittery. I stopped for lunch at Stratham Hill Park, and had a banana and a packet of salted cashews. There was a bathroom as well, which was greatly appreciated. Afterward, and with some reservations, I used the Rockingham Rail Trail to head west toward Route 125, since it was more direct.

The Rockingham Rail Trail is a familiar trail to me, at least in its western end: I hadn't actually ridden this particular section of it before. The part I knew before is a nice path away from traffic, but it's unpaved, and can be rough in spots, so I was a little reluctant to deal with that while carrying a load today. Thankfully it was mostly well packed and clear, so it worked out okay. The going was slower than on pavement, and I had to pay more attention. There were a couple loose patches, which required some care going over, but not much. After crossing 125 I ignored Google Maps and followed 27 out to Chester instead, which is parallel to 101 but just north of it. At this point I was on very familiar roads, and it was a pretty  straightforward thing to guide myself back to Derry. I made it home in time to surprise Rachael, who figured I'd have needed more time to get back.

<iframe height='405' width='590' frameborder='0' allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no' src='https://www.strava.com/activities/318397787/embed/eb5bbb0f5d8ebc5413e351269d968a6486c540d8'></iframe>

