**Day 9:**

I went to sleep a little late last night, and therefore I was a little late getting going in the morning - I wasn't looking forward to it much because the forecast was for thunderstorms for the next couple days. It started out overcast, but not raining initially.

It was nice riding down the same hills I'd had to climb at the end of the day yesterday. As I got into town, it started raining, but not real heavily. I was thankfully able to simplify the directions somewhat by just aiming to get back on the Northern Tier trail without worrying about where I left off. Mostly I was following the same route (5) out of the city and along the coast of Lake Erie, so navigation was easy.

Maybe 10 or 15 miles out of the city I pulled into a state park to have a banana, and as I did it started raining fairly heavily. I sheltered under a park sign for a while until it relented a bit. When it did, I got back on the road and went past more vineyards and farms until I finally crossed the state line into Ohio. Very shortly thereafter the rain broke, and the sun actually came out.

I stopped by a roadside drive-in and had some of their special root beer, along with fries and a chili cheese dog. While I was eating someone asked me if I was associated with the bike race in town.

When I'd gotten a bit further into town, I caught up with another cyclist, and he was wearing a number, so I asked him about it. Apparently it was a 150-mile bike ride over two days being conducted to raise money to fight MS. Amusingly enough, the last few miles of the route were exactly along the Northern Tier route I was following, so a number of police and people on the road cheered assuming I was with them. The event concluded in a park that I was riding by anyway, so I decided to ride in and at least refill my water and use a restroom.

I got going again, riding by lots more private property alongside the lake. It bums me out a little, the extent to which riding by Lake Erie is about seeing signs saying "strictly private"... It eventually starts feeling a bit hostile.

The town of Ashtabula was different - it seemed very industrial for lakefront property, which was a little unusual, but on leaving, things started looking the same again quickly. On the outskirts of town was another park, where I refilled another water bottle and scowled a little at some Canada geese, but these ones were more used to people and less aggressive.

Back on the road, I eventually passed into a town called Geneva on the Lake. At first it looked much the same as anything else, but with a few more restaurants and motels. I stopped at a park with the intent of having a banana and starting to figure out my destination for the end of the day, but I was almost immediately chased off by mayflies, which were extremely thick at the bench I tried to rest at. Apparently there have been swarms of them in the news lately, even causing motorcycle accidents.

I got moving again, figuring I'd find a better snack opportunity later. As I got into the center of the town, it reminded me of Hampton or of the boardwalk area by Weirs Beach. Just as I was leaving town I came across and ice cream stand and had a milkshake that was extremely refreshing as I was feeling very hot.

The Northern Tier then started sending me down many zig-zagging back roads, which was fine until the sky became much more ominous again, and I started hearing rumbling. I put my laundry away, which thankfully had dried enough that I think it'll be useful tomorrow.

As I was making my way toward Cleveland, I was waiting at a four way intersection for a green light when I could see a sheet of torrential rain coming right at me from the street I was supposed to be taking. Luckily I was directly next door to a church with an awning, so I hurried underneath it to wait out the worst of the storm. It abated several times before starting back up, nearly tricking me out into the open multiple times. In the meantime I used my phone to find a motel nearby - I decided that given the weather I wasn't going to try to add any more mileage to the day than I already needed. I aborted the intended route to make as straight a line as possible to a motel down the road.

When the weather improved, I started moving again, getting a mile or two before the downpour renewed. I was about ready to just stop to prevent riding my bike blinded by the weather when I came across a place with mini golf and a driving range, and I found the driving range had a covered landing, where I pulled in. There was an employee there, but he didn't mind me sheltering there, and we chatted for a while as I waited the worst of the storm out again.

When I was convinced it had passed again, I got moving - I found my intended motel shortly thereafter, but unfortunately it was a little isolated, so I rode past it at first, figuring I'd see if there was anything nearby to walk to. Instead I ended up just finding a Subway and picking up a sandwich to bring back and eat in my room. Turning back, I got a pretty decent room at a cheap price, but it may be a bit noisy tonight- it's easy to hear rain, traffic, and trains in the distance. In any case, it's nice to be able to relax a little earlier tonight than last night. Hopefully I'll be able to get an earlier start tomorrow - I'd also like to stop and get some more supplies (snacks, bagels, and a pair of nail clippers!)
