---
layout: post
title: An Application Developer Catches Up on Web Development
---

I dabbled a little bit with web development and PHP back in college, years ago, but professionally I've always been an application developer. My experience is in languages like C++ and Java, writing enterprise applications rather than web pages or the backends that support them. As a personal project, I recently started working on a web application, which has been a great way for me to catch up on what's changed in the web development world since last time I had a look. While I'd like to stress that all of this material is outside of my expertise, I like to believe I've at least done some reading on the topic and I hope I'm not terribly far off-base. If any web developers come across this, I'd love to hear if I'm learning this correctly. For everyone else, I hope my experience might give a little bit of interesting insight.

### PHP Serving an API Instead of a Page

When I first used PHP in the past, it was primarily to introduce dynamic content into an otherwise static page. Essentially, I'd write an HTML page and, for specific bits, write the relevant ```<?php /* */ ?>``` tags to generate the appropriate content on the server side. I tried going down this road again initially. I needed a page that was mostly static, but..PUTSTUFFHERE. The approach seemed simple: when the page is requested, query the database to supply PHP with the appropriate content to place in the page.

### A Misguided Encounter with jQuery

Being vaguely aware of AJAX and jQuery, my first approach was to try and use jQuery to dynamically modify the page at runtime. This quickly proved unmanageable.

e.g.:

```
function addTableRow(data){
	var node = document.getElementById('TableID');
	var form = this.parentNode;
	var column = form.parentNode;
	var row = column.parentNode;
	var table = row.parentNode;
	var name = form.childNodes[0].value;
	var brewery = form.childNodes[1].value;
	var type = form.childNodes[2].value;
	var abv = form.childNodes[3].value;
	var drinkData = {name: name, brewery: brewery, type: type, abv: abv};

	$.ajax( {
		type:'POST',
		url:'api/v1/drink',
		data: drinkData,
		success:function(data){
			// remove the new drink section
			var drinkRow = new DrinkRow(drinkData);
			table.replaceChild(drinkRow, row);

			// add the drink to the menu
			postMenuItem(table.place.id, data, 3, true, 1);
		},
		error:function(jqXHR, textStatus, errorThrown) {
			alert('Unable to add drink');
		}
	})

}
```

This clearly isn't an efficient way for a front-end developer to make a site change according to user input: Firstly, it leads to an alarming amount of code to implement what ultimately represents a very small amount of user-facing functionality. Perhaps even more importantly, it represents a major violation of the idea of separating code and markup.

### REST

I decided to try implementing the interface between the client and backend in the form of a REST API, mostly because REST APIs have been of increasing importance in my workplace, and it seemed like a good excuse to learn what they're all about.

### What Angular.js Taught Me About REST

### PHP and JSON post data
